Using the cloud to update and expedite archaic processes of the past century will be a major goal of the 21st century. Elementum is a company that seems to realize that, and has the potential to streamline the process in the realm of supply chain operations. I want to learn and contribute as much as I can to Elementum, and believe that I have the skills to do so.

As a Computer Science and Economics double major at the best liberal arts institution in the nation, I am constantly faced with handling ambiguous or undefined challenges. My experiences confronting such issues have enabled me to assemble an arsenal of tools that aid me in thinking abstractly and creatively. My talents in combating a variety of technical challenges are no more evident than in my past internship and research experiences.

I am a quick learner who expands and innovates on the knowledge I acquire. I especially love to learn about new technologies, which is why I spent this past summer developing prototype applications using new technologies at Mobiquity Inc. I created an indoor location tracking Android application that logged user location using a combination of Amazon Kinesis and strategically located iBeacons. I also developed test apps that transmitted data to Amazon EC2 instances using secure OAuth authentication methods and aimed for scalability on the server side, giving me intimate knowledge of the MEAN stack.  I was blessed to have direct guidance from the CTO, Android Platform Lead, and head of the Research and Development Lab. My contributions are included in proprietary software that the company markets today.

While my experience at Mobiquity gave me hands-on design and business experience, I also advanced the state-of-the-art in knowledge engineering as an applied artificial intelligence researcher at the Naval Research Lab this summer, continuing into my fall semester at Williams as Senior Honors Research. Working under the Head of the Adaptive Systems Section on the Autonomous Squad Member Project (ASM), I used information retrieved from different sensors of the automaton to amortize the difficulty of increasing its knowledge about the world, all in Common Lisp. I also implemented a knowledge engineering algorithm in Python for comparison against a proprietary knowledge engineering algorithm for the purposes of automated planning and machine learning. Please see my website for more details.

My experiences in start-ups, mid-sized companies, and government research labs in demonstrate the breadth of my knowledge in both academia and industry and make me the ideal candidate for a software engineering position at Airbnb. I appreciate your consideration for the position!

Dear Mr. McCarthy,

I found your name in the Alumni Database and LinkedIn and would really like to get your advice about finding work in the technology industry, at start-ups and large companies alike. In particular, I noticed you are involved with a variety of companies I am interested in, including Eventbrite, Wealthfront, and Spotify. (My dream job would be to work at Spotify, actually.) I am a Williams senior majoring in Computer Science and Economics and plan on moving to wherever I can find interesting work to be involved in, starting in July. I have been involved in the Williams Octet, WCFM, and Williams Students Online (WSO: http://wso.williams.edu) while at Williams and have loved my entire time here. As I look to venture out of the Purple Valley, I could really use some help with the first steps. I was wondering if you have anyone in mind at these companies (particularly Spotify) whom I could speak with about positions for new graduates. I would love to talk with you at some point that is convenient. Please let me know if you would have the time!

Sincerely,

Rahul Nath
Williams College Class of 2015
Computer Science and Economics


Hi Marian,

I found your name in the Alumni Database and would really like to get your advice about finding work in the technology industry -- start-ups and large companies alike. I am a Williams senior majoring in Computer Science and Economics and plan on moving to wherever I can find interesting work to be involved in, starting in July. I have been involved in the Williams Octet, WCFM, and Williams Students Online while at Williams and have loved my time here. As I look to venture out of the Purple Valley, I could really use some help with first steps. I noticed that you are currently work at Dropbox -- that's really cool! It seems like an incredible place to work. I would love to talk with you at some point that is convenient for you. Please let me know if you have the time!

Sincerely,

Rahul Nath
Williams College Class of 2015
Computer Science and Economics

PS: Here's a link to my website if you want to learn more about me:  http://rahul-nath.github.io

If writing directly to an employer about a specific job opening, the same rules apply, though you might want to be more formal. The subject line might say “Responding to your request.”

The text:

“Dear ________: I am following up on your announcement of an opening for a ___________ in your _________ department. I am a Williams College student with a background that would meet your needs and would like to speak with you briefly about your requirements in more detail. Please let me know about next best steps and how I might submit my resume for your consideration. Thanks for your attention.
Sincerely, ____________”





"Link to an app" answer:

Have not single-handedly published app on market, though I have contributed to several apps released by the company I worked for this summer, Mobiquity Inc., including an Android version of Mobi-Reveal iOS app that uses iBeacon technology to reveal great sales deals in stores close by the user of the application.

What code/site/project are you most proud about? Answer:

I am most proud of my work done at the Naval Research Laboratory, where I contributed to the development of a knowledge engineering algorithm designed to infer domain knowledge about an environment based on incomplete and noisy action sequences performed in a multi-agent setting. The outcome of this work is detailed in an upcoming paper that I am co-authored on with my colleagues, which will be submitted for publication this summer.

"what motivates you?":
- humanizing technology so that it becomes a part of others' lives, and most importantly makes every day life easier and more exciting. 
- knowing that what I do is important to others. Knowing that what I make, what I am responsible for, needs to be perfect for the customer if it is to reach them at all
- knowing that people are happier with my work and want more of it


"What can you contribute to Spotify?":
- using machine learning and automated planning techniques to discover individuals' musical tastes
- Android development experience, but more importantly critical thinking and communication skills that facilitate quality team work and progress.
- economics/computer science hybrid -- emphasis on efficient coding
- industrial organizational knowledge, business acumen, and familiarity with software development practices.
- passion for the job; to bring high quality music into one's life is to make one's day a better one to live
- being up to date on the latest musical trends and musical tastes

"Tell us about some of your hobby projects?":
Medicost is a project I have worked on spawned from the MIT Hacking Medicine Hackathon. It is designed to make it easy to look up the cost of a medical procedure by doctors accepting Medicare and Medicaid. For those without insurance, it is often difficult to anticipate the cost of expensive treatments until it is too late. This website allows such individuals to see the cost requests made by doctors to insurance companies and how much they received as a result of their requests, along with other information regarding the doctor's practice. Data was scraped from the Dept. of Health and Human services. I've also developed an Android application called Queuer that allows people to keep track of different tasks they have to do and allows them to manage their completion. It utilizes Android tools such as Volley, GSON, and the SQLite database and was developed using the AGILE methodology. I worked in conjunction with a team and the code is available on my Github account. The app is not on Google Play.

